labs/lab6/README.md, before:

# Semantic Kernel Agent Lab

Welcome to the Semantic Kernel Agent Lab! This lab contains three exercises to help you get hands-on experience with  Semantic Kernel Agents.

At the time of this workshop, The Semantic Kernel Agent Framework is experimental, still in development and is subject to change. 
All documentation is [Semantic Kernel Agent Framework (experimental)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/semantic-kernel/frameworks/agent/?pivots=programming-language-csharp).

## Exercises

### Exercise 1: Introduction to Agent with Semantic Kernel
In this exercise, you will learn the basics of Semantic Kernel Agents and how to set up your environment. For detailed instructions, please refer to the [Basic agent with SK](./EXE1_Basic_Agent.md).

### Exercise 2: Building Your First Semantic Kernel Agent with Skills
In this exercise, you will create your first Semantic Kernel agent that have a skill to get the current wheater of a city calling a public API. [Agent with skills](./EXE2_Agent.md)

### Exercise 3: Agent Group Chat
In this exercise, you will explore advanced techniques and best practices for working with Semantic Kernel.

Happy coding!

Commit message:

Add City Poet agent with weather skill and chat functionality

labs/lab6/README.md, after:

# Semantic Kernel Agent Lab

Welcome to the Semantic Kernel Agent Lab! This lab contains three exercises to help you get hands-on experience with  Semantic Kernel Agents.

At the time of this workshop, The Semantic Kernel Agent Framework is experimental, still in development and is subject to change. 
All documentation is [Semantic Kernel Agent Framework (experimental)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/semantic-kernel/frameworks/agent/?pivots=programming-language-csharp).

## Exercises

### Exercise 1: Introduction to Agent with Semantic Kernel
In this exercise, you will learn the basics of Semantic Kernel Agents and how to set up your environment. For detailed instructions, please refer to the [Basic agent with SK](./EXE1_Basic_Agent.md).

### Exercise 2: Building Your First Semantic Kernel Agent with Skills
In this exercise, you will create your first Semantic Kernel agent that have a skill to get the current wheater of a city calling a public API. [Agent with skills](./EXE2_Agent.md)

### Exercise 3: Agent Group Chat
In this exercise, you will explore build a team of 4 agent that going to work togther to solve an user trip request. [Group Chat agents](./EXE3_GRoupAgent.md)

Happy coding!
